---
title:  "Fast And Furious Review"
date:   2020-04-09 19:00:00 +0200
categories: Action
description: Per indagare su una serie di furti, il poliziotto Brian O'Connor diventa un infiltrato sotto copertura nel mondo delle corse clandestine di Los Angeles.
image: fast-and-furious.jpg
---

The Fast and the Furious is a 2001 crime action adventure film directed by Rob Cohen and written by Gary Scott Thompson and David Ayer. It is the first installment in the Fast & Furious franchise and stars Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, Michelle Rodriguez, Jordana Brewster, Rick Yune, Chad Lindberg, Johnny Strong, and Ted Levine. The Fast and the Furious follows Brian O'Conner (Walker), an undercover cop tasked with discovering the identities of a group of unknown automobile hijackers led by Dominic Toretto (Diesel).

Development for The Fast and the Furious arose after Cohen read a Vibe magazine article in 1998 titled "Racer X", which detailed the illegal street racing circuit operating within New York City.[4] After contacting producer Neal H. Moritz, Moritz was able to present the script to Universal Studios, who greenlit The Fast and the Furious in 2000.[5] Walker was the first actor to sign onto the project, while Diesel initially had to be persuaded to participate in the film, accepting after proposing several script changes.[6]

Principal photography began in Los Angeles in July 2000, with the majority of filming being done on location in Los Angeles and southern California, which ended in October 2000.[7]

The Fast and the Furious was released in the United States on June 22, 2001. The film was a commercial success, grossing over $200 million worldwide. It received mixed reviews, with praise for Walker and Diesel's performances, and the action sequences,[8][9] but criticism aimed at the storyline and its ending.[10] It was later re-released on June 22, 2016, to commemorate the film's fifteenth anniversary.[3]

The Fast and the Furious soon launched a media franchise and a series of seven sequels, starting with 2 Fast 2 Furious in 2003.

### Characters

- Paul Walker as Brian O'Conner: An LAPD officer sent to infiltrate a crew of hijackers. Mia's love interest.
- Vin Diesel as Dominic Toretto: Leader of the heist crew and a professional street racer. He was banned from professional racing after a violent retaliatory attack on the man who accidentally killed Dominic's father.
- Michelle Rodriguez as Letty Ortiz:
A member of Dominic's crew and his girlfriend.
- Jordana Brewster as Mia Toretto:
- Dominic's sister and owner of the Toretto general store. Brian's love interest.
- Rick Yune as Johnny Tran:
A Vietnamese gang leader and rival of Dominic.
- Chad Lindberg as Jesse: A member of Dominic's crew. Highly intelligent with maths, algebra, and in computing, but he suffers from Attention deficit disorder.
- Johnny Strong as Leon: A member of Dominic's crew
- Matt Schulze as Vince: A member of Dominic's crew and his childhood friend. He harbors an unrequited love for Mia.
